auto-scaling-official-guide

auto scaling is a service that allows you to scale your ec2 capacity automatically by scaling out and scaling in according to your criteria that you define


auto scaling plans
	maintain current instance levels
		configure to maintain a minimum or specified number of running instances at all times. auto scaling performs periodic health check on running instances within an auto scaling group. when it finds an unhealthy instance it terminates that instance an launches a new one


	manual scaling
		specify the max, min, or desired capacity for your auto scaling group. a.s. manages the process of creating or terminating instances to maintain the updated capacity


	scheduled scaling
		if you knwo exactly when you will need to increase or decrease the number of instances

		recurring events such as end-of-month, quarter, or year processing or scheduled and recurring automated laod and performance testing can be ramped up appropriately at the time of a scheduled event


	dynamic scaling
		define the parameters that control the a.s. process in a scaling policy


a.s. components
	launch config, a.s. gorup, and optional scaling policy


	launch config
		the template that a.s. uses to create new instances and it is composed of hte configuration name, ami, ec2 instance type, security group and instance key pair

		each a.s. group can have only one launch configuration at a time


	a.s. group
		an a.s. group can use either on-demand or spot instances as the ec2 instances it manages


	scaling policy
		adjust a.s. dynamically

		when a threshold is crossed, cloudwatch sends alarms to trigger changes (scaling in or out) to the number of ec2 instances currently receiving traffic behind a load balancer

		several ways to configure a scaling policy
			increase or decrease by a specific number of instance

			target a specific number of instnaces

			adjust based on a percentage


		best practice: scale out quickly and scale in slowly

		a.s. supports a cool down period, which is a configurable setting that determines when to suspend scaling activities for a short time for an a.s. group

		