Security

IAM-(Identity and Access Mgmt)

Two types of IAM policies:

	managed policies:
		standalone policies that can be created by customers or AWS. exps of this includes administrator access, power user access, read-only access, and IAM read-only access

	inline policies:
		embedded in a principal entity, such as a user, group, or role. the policy is an inherent part of the entity


Roles
	
	IAM roles are temporary user credentials. principle of least privilege means that an entity should not have excessive sets of permissions. 

	roles are used to delegate access to AWS resources. the role provides temporary access to eliminate the need to use static AWS credentials. think of roles as temporary users.


Best practices for securing account:
	-require mfa for root access
	-physically secure root account hw mfa in a safe place
	-create indvidual IAM users
	-use groups to assign permissions to IAM users
	-enable mfa for privileged users
	-use IAM roles for apps that run on EC2 instances
	-delegate by using IAM roles
	-rotate credentials
	-remove root credentials
	-use access levels to review IAM permissions
	-use IAM roles to provide cross-account access


key pairs
	ec2 instances created from a public AMI use a public/private key pair instead of a password for signing in via SSH (think RSA)

	amazon cloudfront key pairs can be created only by the root acct and cannot be created by IAM users

aws kms (key management services)
	used to generate and manage crypto keys and operate as a crypto service provider for protecting data. 


aws cloudHSM security
	dedicated access to a HW security module (HSM) appliance designed to provide secure crypto key storage and operations in an intrusion-resistant, tamper-evident device.

	designed to be used with EC2 and VPC, which provide the appliance with its own private IP within a private subnet.

	can connect to cloudHSM appliances from your own ec2 servers through ssl/tls, which uses 2 way digital cert auth and 256-bit ssl encryption

	after 3 unsuccessful attempts to access an hsm partition with admin credentials, the hsm appliance erases its hsm partitions


cloudtrail
	log of all requests for aws resources in your acct

	captures info about every api call including sign-in

	logs are delivered every 5 mins/300seconds

	by default, logs are stored in s3 but can also be archived in glacier to help meet audit and compliance reqs

	cloudwatch
		monitor system, app, and custom log files from ec2 instances

vpc flow logs
	capture info about the IP traffic going to and from network interfacts in your vpc

	stored in cloudwatch logs

	elb and elastic network interfact provide access logs that capture detailed info about requests or connections sent to the load balancer

cloudwatch
	provides a means for monitoring aws resources

	cloudtrail logs can be monitored in real time using cloudwatch

aws config
	records configuration changes to an aws account. can be used to retrieve inventory of aws resources in an acct at a particular time

	use cases include the following:
		resource discovery
		troubleshooting
		change mgmt
		audit compiance
		security analysis

amazon inspector
	automated security assessment service that helps improve the security and compliance of apps deployed on aws

aws certificate manager
	provision, manage, and deploy ssl/tls certs 

aws waf (web application firewall)
	what u think.

	tightly integrated with cloudfront and application load balancer (both used to deliver content to websites and apps)

	when you use waf on cloudfront, your rules run in all aws edge locations around the world close to end users. no performance loss that way.

	blocked requests are stopped before they reach your web servers. 

	when using waf on application load balancer, rules run in-region and can be used to protect internet-facting and internal load balancers

aws trusted advisor
	customer support service

	provides alerts on most common security misconfigs that can occur

ebs (elastic block storage)
	redundantly stored in multiple physical locations at no extra charge

	replication is stored within the same AZ

	recommended you conduct regular snapshots and save them to S3 for long-term data durability



networking

elastic load balancing (elb) security
	used to manage traffic on a fleet on ec2 instances, distributing traffic to instances across all AZs within a region

	security benefits:
		takes over encryption work from ec2

		when used in a vpc, supports creation and mgmt of security groups associated with elb to provide additional networking and security options

		supports end-to-end traffic encryption used tls on networks that use https

	elb allows the use of perfect forward secrecy, which uses session keys that are ephemeral and not stored anywhere


	elb access logs contain info about each http and tcp request processed by your load balancer


vpc security
	normally, each ec2 instance is randomly assigned a public ip addr in the ec2 address space

	vpc enables you to create an isolated portion of the cloud and launch ec2 instances that have private (rfc 1918) address in the range of your choice

	security features include:
		security groups
		network ACLs
		routing tables
		external gateways

	you must create specific security groups inside your vpc. in addition, vpc sec groups have additional capabilities that ec2 instances do not have, such as being able to change the security group after the instance is launched and being able to specify any protocol number

	each vpc is distinct. network traffic is isolated from all other vpcs. 

	subnets
		can create one or more subnets in each vpc. each instance launched in the vpc is connected to one subnet. mac spoofing and ARP spoofing are blocked.

		each subnet in a vpc is associated with a routing table, and all networking traffic leaving the subnet is processed by the routing table to determine the destination

	network ACLs
		stateless traffic filters that apply to all traffic inbound or outbound from a subnet within a vpc. ACLs contain ordered rules to allow or deny traffic based on IP protocol, service port, and source/destination ip addresses

	virtual private gateway
		enables private connectivity between the vpc and another network

		network traffic within each vpg is isolated from network traffic within all other virtual private gateways

	cloudfront
		distribute content with low latency and high data transfer speeds

		uses a global network of edge locations. it's a cdn. this is the same as point of presence essentially.

		requests for customers' objects are auto routed to the nearest edge location so content is delivered with optimal performance

	aws recommends that customers not place sensitive information in S3 metadata

	sse = server side encryption









